https://mode.com/sql-tutorial

SELECT - indicates which columns you'd like to view
FROM  -identifies the table that they live in
LIMIT
WHERE - filtering the data 
OPERATORS

LIKE allows you to match similar values, instead of exact values.
IN allows you to specify a list of values you'd like to include.
BETWEEN allows you to select only rows within a certain range.
IS NULL allows you to select rows that contain no data in a given column.
AND allows you to select only rows that satisfy two conditions.
OR allows you to select rows that satisfy either of two conditions.
NOT allows you to select rows that do not match a certain condition.

ORDER BY - sort data ,referred to as ascending order, and it's SQL's default.

COUNT counts how many rows are in a particular column.
SUM adds together all the values in a particular column.
MIN and MAX return the lowest and highest values in a particular column, respectively.
AVG calculates the average of a group of selected values.
GROUP BY -SQL aggregate function like COUNT, AVG, and SUM have something in common: they all aggregate across the entire table

HAVING - filter on aggregate columns
CASE STATEMENT

The CASE statement always goes in the SELECT clause
CASE must include the following components: WHEN, THEN, and END. ELSE is an optional component.

inner join is the intersection of the two tables
LEFT JOIN returns only unmatched rows from the left table, as well as matched rows in both tables.
RIGHT JOIN returns only unmatched rows from the right table , as well as matched rows in both tables.
FULL OUTER JOIN returns unmatched rows from both tables,as well as matched rows in both tables.

SQL joins allow you to combine two datasets side-by-side, but UNION allows you to stack one dataset on top of the other
UNION only appends distinct values

data wrangling (or munging) is the process of programmatically transforming data into a format that makes it easier to work with.

A window function performs a calculation across a set of table rows that are somehow related to the current row.

RANK()
ROW_NUMBER()
DENSE_RANK()
LEAD()
LAG()




